Changelog 179 (#162)
intellij-rust/intellij-rust.github.io: _posts/2022-09-26-changelog-179.markdown

---
layout: post
title: "IntelliJ Rust Changelog #179"
date: 2022-09-26 13:00:00 +0300
---

> 

Reviewer: I want to [drop](https://github.com/intellij-rust/intellij-rust/pull/9376) support for 2022.1 platform, so let's add a comment that it's the latest plugin version which supports 2022.1 as we usually do

---
layout: post
title: "IntelliJ Rust Changelog #179"
date: 2022-09-26 13:00:00 +0300
---

This is the last release that supports the 2022.1 IDEs. To receive plugin updates further, please upgrade your IDE to 2022.2.

## New Features

* [#9241] Change the rendering of folded blocks for `use`, `mod`, `extern crate`, and `where` blocks to make them more distinct from folded block comments (by [@afetisov])

  {% include gif-img.html path="/assets/posts/changelog-179/fold" w="700px" %}

> * [#9176] Use the [`--keep-going` Cargo option](https://doc.rust-lang.org/nightly/cargo/reference/unstable.html#keep-going) when building and evaluating build scripts. This allows building and executing as much as possible even if some build scripts or proc-macros aren't working. Requires enabling of the `org.rust.cargo.evaluate.build.scripts` [experimental feature][experimental features]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* [#9176] Use the [--keep-going](https://doc.rust-lang.org/nightly/cargo/reference/unstable.html#keep-going) `cargo` option when building and evaluating build scripts. This allows building and executing as much as possible even if some build scripts or procedural macros can be compiled or executed succesfully. Previously, it was possible to break analysis of code by some error in unrelated build script or procedural macros.
Note, build script evaluation still requires enabling of the `org.rust.cargo.evaluate.build.scripts` [experimental feature][experimental features]
```

> * [#9043] Add [`Redundant semicolons`](https://doc.rust-lang.org/rustc/lints/listing/warn-by-default.html#redundant-semicolons) inspection and quick-fix for it

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* [#9043] Add [Redundant semicolons](https://doc.rust-lang.org/rustc/lints/listing/warn-by-default.html#redundant-semicolons) inspection and quick-fix for it
```

* [#9176] Use the [`--keep-going` Cargo option](https://doc.rust-lang.org/nightly/cargo/reference/unstable.html#keep-going) when building and evaluating build scripts. By default, cargo stops the build immediately if one rustc instance or buildscript instance fails, even if it would be possible to compile other crates that does not depends on the error crate. The option `--keep-going` instructs cargo to continue building even if the compilation of some crate fails or the evaluation of some buildscript fails. This behavior is exactly what is need in the case of buildscript evaluation - as an IDE, we need to compile&evaluate as much as possible. Requires enabling of the `org.rust.cargo.evaluate.build.scripts` [experimental feature][experimental features]

* [#9043] Add [`redundant_semicolons`](https://doc.rust-lang.org/rustc/lints/listing/warn-by-default.html#redundant-semicolons) inspection and quick-fix for it

  {% include gif-img.html path="/assets/posts/changelog-179/semicolons" w="700px" %}

* [#9242] Complete `target_feature`, `proc_macro`, `proc_macro_derive`, and `proc_macro_attribute` atributes for functions (by [@afetisov])

> * [#9271] Mark public re-exports in binary crates like unused by `Unused imports` inspection. Note that the inspection works only when [the procedural macro support is enabled](https://github.com/intellij-rust/intellij-rust/issues/6908)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* [#9271] Mark public re-exports in binary crates as unused by `Unused imports` inspection. Note that the inspection works only when [the procedural macro support is enabled](https://github.com/intellij-rust/intellij-rust/issues/6908)
```

---
layout: post
title: "IntelliJ Rust Changelog #179"
date: 2022-09-26 13:00:00 +0300
---

This is the last release that supports the 2022.1 IDEs. To receive plugin updates further, please upgrade your IDE to 2022.2.

## New Features

* [#9241] Change the rendering of folded blocks for `use`, `mod`, `extern crate`, and `where` blocks to make them more distinct from folded block comments (by [@afetisov])

  **TODO**: img/gif

> * [#9176] Use the [`--keep-going` Cargo option](https://doc.rust-lang.org/nightly/cargo/reference/unstable.html#keep-going) when building and evaluating build scripts to continue building even if some crate fails to compile

Reviewer: Let's add explanation how it affects users. Also, I'd mention that build script evaluation is disabled by default and can be turned on via experimental feature

> * [#9325] Enable [build script](https://doc.rust-lang.org/cargo/reference/build-scripts.html) evaluation in nightly plugin builds for 2022.2 platform

Reviewer: Let's move it to the end of the section

* [#9043] Add [`redundant_semicolons`](https://doc.rust-lang.org/rustc/lints/listing/warn-by-default.html#redundant-semicolons) inspection and quick-fix for it

  **TODO**: img/gif

> * [#7435] The intention to convert a match expression to a series of if let statements is now offered in more situations (by [@Kobzol])

Reviewer: Unfortunately, I decided to [revert](https://github.com/intellij-rust/intellij-rust/pull/9396) this PR because of bug. So I think we don't need this item in this changelog

  **TODO**: img/gif?

> * [#9242] update completions for function attributes including `target_feature`, `proc_macro`, `proc_macro_derive`, and `proc_macro_attribute` (by [@afetisov])

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* [#9242] Complete `target_feature`, `proc_macro`, `proc_macro_derive`, and `proc_macro_attribute` atributes for functions (by [@afetisov])
```

## Performance Improvements

* [#9338], [#9337], [#9334], [#9331], [#9322] Slightly speed up name resolution and type inference

> * [#9211] Speed up name resolution of large nested paths like `Foo<Foo<Foo<Foo<...>>>>` by resolving and caching them at once

Reviewer: Maybe mention real use case - usage of `typenum` crate?

> * [#9213] Use dependencies modification tracker in more places to reduce unnecessary cache invalidations

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* [#9213] Reduce unnecessary invalidations of caches for dependencies by changes in workspace code
```

## Fixes

> * [#9352] Allow empty precision in formatting parameter (by [@KarelPeeters])

Reviewer: I think it should be at the end part of "fixes" section since it fixes quite corner case

* [#9351] Fix `Tools | Rust | Share in Playground` action

* [#9327] Fix name resolution of an associated type of a type parameter inside a trait bound, in the case where the type parameter is declared on a level other than the bound

> * [#9317] Complete crates from a workspace in `extern crate`

Reviewer: I think it's more a feature than a fix but since `extern crate` is quite rare thing let's move it to the second part of `Features` section

> * [#9314] Don't suggest auto-import fix for assoc type binding

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* [#9314] Don't suggest `Import` quick-fix for associated type bindings
```

* [#9302] Provide proper names for `Undo`/`Redo` actions and records in [Local history](https://www.jetbrains.com/help/idea/local-history.html) for changes made by `Promote Module to Directory` and `Downgrade Module to File` refactorings (by [@afetisov])

> * [#9298] Fix ["Inline function"](https://plugins.jetbrains.com/plugin/8182-rust/docs/rust-refactorings.html#extractmethod-refactoring) dialog when the number of occurrences is unknown

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* [#9298] Fix [Inline function](https://plugins.jetbrains.com/plugin/8182-rust/docs/rust-refactorings.html#extractmethod-refactoring) dialog when the number of occurrences is unknown
```

> * [#9297] Improve UI of ["Inline function"](https://plugins.jetbrains.com/plugin/8182-rust/docs/rust-refactorings.html#extractmethod-refactoring) dialog for functions with a large number of parameters

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* [#9297] Don't show parameters by [Inline function](https://plugins.jetbrains.com/plugin/8182-rust/docs/rust-refactorings.html#extractmethod-refactoring) refactoring dialog. Otherwise, the dialog looks cluttered, expecially in case of large number of arguments
```

> * [#9271] Support the `Unused imports` inspection for public reexports in binary crates

Reviewer: I think it's a feature but let's rephrase it like

```suggestion
* [#9271] Mark public re-exports in binary crates like unused by `Unused imports` inspection
```

Also, let's mention that inspection works only when procedural macro support is enabled
